# User-entry fields for Description node

**Structure of the info in this doc:** Fields are listing in the order that makes sense for the user in the entry form. Whether a field is required, or autogenerated, is noted on the “Entry type” line.

### Bold name is the name of the entry field for the user interface: 
* **PBot:** the PBot backend field name+code from the list Claire generated a couple months ago (may not be up to date with the current dev)
* **dwc:** the DarwinCore field term name and link to term info, if we can find one that is applicable. https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/ 
* **Info:** the definition of the field. In addition to being for our internal use, these will serve as the draft for later definitions used in the guidelines/tutorials for users. 
* **Entry type:** describe how data will be entered into the field
* **Considerations:** this section is for info to convey to the PBot team (Botany, Dev, or both) about the field. Notes, wishes, questions, etc. 



# Description node:



### Description name: 
* PBot: name: String 
* dwc: 
* Info: 
* Entry type: 
* Consideration: This field currently exists on the description node, but I am not sure why it needs a name? It has an auto-generated internal ID, and the description node is required to be attached to a specimen or OTU. Is this optional, like if someone wants to give a “name” to a description, like “field description” and then if they do a more thorough or revised on later say “revised description”? Or name a published description “Bown’s 1921 description” and “Manchester 2012 description” for the revision? (of course, references are entered for a description, so I don’t think doing it that way would be very useful)

### References:
* PBot: references:[DescriptionCitedBy]. Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc:  
* Info: The reference for the description of an OTU or specimen. For a taxon or specimen that has been described in existing literature, the reference would be for the publication from which the description is being used. For un-published taxa or specimens, the reference should be to the person or group that has generated the description (e.g., an internal reference). **Required.**
* Entry type: select from existing references, prompt to create a new reference if one does not already exist. 
* Consideration: We have reference field on Specimen and OTU nodes too - this will be duplicate info for those. But this would be the info that shows as "described by" on the OTU or specimen pages, and should be schema-specific. 

### Data access groups:
* PBot: elementOf: [Group!]! @relation(name: "ELEMENT_OF", direction: OUT). Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc:  “groups” are sorta similar to datasetID http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/datasetID, or datasetName http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/datasetName
* Info: Defines what project groups have access to view the description record. Published descriptions should always be part of the ‘public’ access group. Descriptions can belong to multiple groups. **Required.**
* Entry type: multi-select from the users project groups and the option Public
* Considerations: can be public AND in another defined group. There are definitely cases where a user may want to enter a private description, even though the OTU or specimen is public. An example would be if you are working on a revision of taxon that you plan to publish later. 

### Specimens:
* PBot: specimens: [DescribedBy]. Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc: 
* Info: If describing a specimen, select the specimen that is being described.
* Entry type: Select from pre-existing specimens. Multiselect possible?
* Considerations: We need to require that a description be attached to either a specimen or an OTU -is that possible? We definitely don’t want free-floating descriptions hanging around! 

### OTU:
* PBot: not defined yet. Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc: 
* Info: If describing an OTU, select the OTU that is being described. 
* Entry type: Select from pre-existing OTUs.
* Considerations: We need to require that a description be attached to either a specimen or an OTU -is that possible? We definitely don’t want free-floating descriptions hanging around! 

### Schema:
* PBot: schema: Schema @relation(name: "APPLICATION_OF", direction: OUT). Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc: 
* Info: The schema that will be used to describe the specimen or OTU. 
* Entry type: Select the schema from the list. 
* Considerations: If you will be using more than one schema, then you have to create a new description node for each schema. 

### Character instances:
* PBot: characterInstances: [CharacterInstance!]! @relation(name: "DEFINED_BY", direction: OUT). Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc: 
* Info: 
* Entry type: After selecting the schema, the user is prompted to enter the character instances through some sort of workflow. Selection from drop-down menus (like the example from the MLA entry in Adobe Bridge), or some sort of workflow swiping/expanding down or to the side, like Andrew suggested at our senior meeting. 
* Considerations:  

### pbotID:
* PBot: pbotID:ID!
* dwc:  NA
* Info: Internal unique identifier in the PBot database. 
* Entry type: no entry, is autogenerated by PBot when creating a new record.
* Considerations: 

### Date entered: 
* PBot: 
* dwc: the DarwinCore field term name and link to term info. https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/ 
* Info: Records the date the description was generated. Is displayed on the specimen or OTU landing page in the taxon/specimen history. 
* Entry type: no entry, is autogenerated by PBot when creating a new record.
* Considerations: 

### Entered by:  [Are we using “entered by” (or some other name for it like recordedBy?)--see question from Doug’s email]
* PBot: enteredBy: [SchemaEnteredBy]
* dwc: similar to but not quite synonymous with recordedBy http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/recordedBy
* Info: The user who entered the record.
* Entry type: no entry, is autogenerated by PBot when creating a new record.
* Considerations:
