# User-entry fields for Group Nodes
### Paleobotanists will call these "Projects" (see Dori's workbench design)
  
 *Question: Did we decide that groups are always public or can people choose? Obviously the “Public” group is public. :)
Note that group nodes would have relationships with nodes that are both public and private.*

Structure of the info in this doc: Fields are divided into **Required Fields**, which users must enter when they create the node, **Recommended Fields**, which are encouraged to be entered on node creation but not required (note, none exist for Groups), and **Fields that will be autogenerated by PBot**, which should be viewable by users. For each field, we have compiled the information and structured as follows:
 
### Name of field for user interface: 
* Entry type: describe how users will enter data into the field
* Considerations: this is an optional section, if there is info to convey to the PBot team (Botany, Dev, or both) about the field. Notes, wishes, questions, etc. 
* PBot: the PBot backend field name+code from the list Claire generated. Many will be missing.
* dwc: the DarwinCore field term name and link to term info. https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/ 
* Info: the definition of the field. In addition to being for our internal use, these will serve as the draft for later definitions used in the guidelines/tutorials for users. 

# Entry Fields

### Project name*
* Entry type: free text
* Considerations: need to make sure this is a unique name
* PBot: name: [name]
* dwc: PBot specific. Not relevant to DarwinCore.
* Info: A short, descriptive name for the project
 
### Members*
* Entry type: Search people nodes and select. Drop down menu would have too many options as PBot accumulates users.
* Considerations: People must be registered in PBot and have a Person Node prior to being added to a group.
* PBot: [Person!]! @relation(name: "MEMBER_OF", direction: IN)
* dwc: PBot specific. Not relevant to DarwinCore.
* Info: People who belong to the group and have access to view and edit all data in that group.

### Purpose of group*
* Entry type: free text
* Considerations:
* PBot:
* dwc: PBot specific. Not relevant to DarwinCore.
* Info: A short (preferably less than 3 sentences) description of the project, which can include the aim of the project, and some or all of the following: geographic region, time period, major clade, plant organ, mode of preservation.

## Fields auto-generated by PBot:
 
### pbotID
* Info: Internal unique identifier in the PBot database. 
* Entry type: no entry, is autogenerated by PBot when creating a new record.
* PBot: pbotID: ID!
* dwc: PBot specific. Not relevant to DarwinCore. 
 
### Entered by
* Info: The user who entered the record.
* Entry type: no entry, is autogenerated by PBot based on the user login when creating a new record.
* PBot: enteredBy: [GroupEnteredBy]
* dwc: similar to but not quite synonymous with recordedBy http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/recordedBy

### Date entered
* Info: When the group was created. Tracking this will help us with whatever rules we set on when data need to be made public.
* Entry type: no entry, is autogenerated by PBot.
* PBot: 
* dwc: 

# May be other things that should be auto-generated. Doug and Andrew will weigh in on this.
