# User-entry fields for Parts preserved node

**Structure of the info in this doc:** Fields are listing in the order that makes sense for the user in the entry form. Whether a field is required, or autogenerated, is noted on the “Entry type” line.

### Bold name is the name of the entry field for the user interface: 
* **PBot:** the PBot backend field name+code from the list Claire generated a couple months ago (may not be up to date with the current dev)
* **dwc:** the DarwinCore field term name and link to term info, if we can find one that is applicable. https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/ 
* **Info:** the definition of the field. In addition to being for our internal use, these will serve as the draft for later definitions used in the guidelines/tutorials for users. 
* **Entry type:** describe how data will be entered into the field
* **Considerations:** this section is for info to convey to the PBot team (Botany, Dev, or both) about the field. Notes, wishes, questions, etc. 


# Parts Preserved node (formerly called “Organ”)

**Note that users never see this node - it is not an entry form, but exists for the purpose of relationships. To be honest, we are not sure how this works, since the relationships are to a specific option in one field of the node. I added fields to attach relationships with specimens, OTUs and Schema, but truthfully we don’t know if that is how this works! **

### Parts preserved: 
* PBot: [we are not sure how this is currently in the database]
* dwc: NA
* Info: The parts of the plant that are represented by the record (specimen, OTU, schema)
* Entry type: Check-boxes; must allow multiple entries.**Required.** Options below: 

* Root
* Shoot / Axis 
* Leaf
* Pollen / Spore
* Inflorescence / Flower
* Infructescence / Fruit
* Strobilus / Cone
* Ovule / Seed
* Sporangium
* Indeterminate reproductive structure
* Other: fill in field? (if fill in is not possible, just do 'other')
* Unknown
* N/A (not organ-specific)



### Specimens:
* PBot: specimens: [Specimen!]! @relation(name: "IS_TYPE" direction: IN) Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc: 
* Info: Defines relationship with specimens: what parts of the plant does a specimen preserve? 
* Entry type: 
* Considerations: 

### OTU:
* PBot: doesn’t exist yet. Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc: 
* Info: Defines relationships to OTUs: what parts of the plant are represented by the OTU?
* Entry type: 
* Considerations: 

### Schema:
* PBot: doesn’t exist yet. Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc: 
* Info: Defines relationships to schemas: what parts of the plant is the schema applicable to?
* Entry type: 
* Considerations: 

### pbotID:
* PBot: pbotID:ID!
* dwc:  NA
* Info: Internal unique identifier in the PBot database. 
* Entry type: no entry, is autogenerated by PBot when creating a new record.
* Considerations: 

### Entered by:  Are we using “entered by” (or some other name for it like recordedBy?)--see question from Doug’s email
* PBot: enteredBy: [SchemaEnteredBy]
* dwc: similar to but not quite synonymous with recordedBy http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/recordedBy
* Info: The user who entered the record.
* Entry type: no entry, is autogenerated by PBot when creating a new record.
* Considerations:


