# User-entry fields for Proposed synonym node

**Structure of the info in this doc:** Fields are listing in the order that makes sense for the user in the entry form. Whether a field is required, or autogenerated, is noted on the “Entry type” line.

### Bold name is the name of the entry field for the user interface: 
* **PBot:** the PBot backend field name+code from the list Claire generated a couple months ago (may not be up to date with the current dev)
* **dwc:** the DarwinCore field term name and link to term info, if we can find one that is applicable. https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/ 
* **Info:** the definition of the field. In addition to being for our internal use, these will serve as the draft for later definitions used in the guidelines/tutorials for users. 
* **Entry type:** describe how data will be entered into the field
* **Considerations:** this section is for info to convey to the PBot team (Botany, Dev, or both) about the field. Notes, wishes, questions, etc. 


# Proposed Synonym node:

### Data access groups:
* PBot: elementOf: [Group!]! @relation(name: "ELEMENT_OF", direction: OUT). Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc:  “groups” are sorta similar to datasetID http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/datasetID, or datasetName http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/datasetName
* Info: Defines what project groups have access to view the record. Published synonymies should always be part of the ‘public’ access group. Required.
* Entry type: multi-select from the users project groups and the option Public
* Considerations: can be public AND in another defined group. How does privacy work for this? If an OTU is private, then by default is this also private? Also, we would have the case where you are going to propose that two public OTUs are synonyms, and you might want to keep this to yourself until you publish it. So, it makes sense to allow data access group to be chosen. Another question, we need to work out what is the outcome of proposing a synonymy: are the OTUs actually merged, or is this just a node hanging off each OTU?
* 
### OTUs:
* PBot: otus: [OTU!]! @relation(name: "SAME_AS", direction: IN). Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc: 
* Info: The OTUs that are proposed to by synonymous.
* Entry type: Select from pre-existing OTUs. Required.
* Considerations: Should be required to select 2 or more OTUs. 

### Explanation:
* PBot: explanation: String
* dwc:  
* Info: A concise text explanation for the proposed synonymy. 
* Entry type: free text. Required. 
* Considerations: 


### References:
* PBot: references: [SynonymCitedBy]. Defines a relationship to another node.
* dwc:  
* Info: The reference stating that two OTUs represent a single entity and should be synonymized. Required.
* Entry type: select from existing references, prompt to create a new reference if one does not already exist. 
* Consideration: We will need to think about how to handle synonymizations from your working project (i.e. your early in the morphotyping and have decided to lump two morphotypes) vs. synonymizations for formally named taxa. Actually, there is a lot for the paleobotany team to think about here and make rules on, but there should be no changes needed to how the programming is done. 

### Notes: (this was formerly called “comments”)
* PBot: comments: [Comment!] @relation(name: "REFERS_TO", direction: IN)
* dwc:  
* Info: Users can enter “Notes” on the proposed synonymy (formerly we called these “comments”). 
* Entry type: free text.
* Considerations: Can be entered by the creator of the proposed synonym during the initial form submission, and added onto later by any user to make notes about the proposed synonymy.

### pbotID:
* PBot: pbotID:ID!
* dwc:  NA
* Info: Internal unique identifier in the PBot database. 
* Entry type: no entry, is autogenerated by PBot when creating a new record.
* Considerations: 

### Date entered: 
* PBot: 
* dwc: the DarwinCore field term name and link to term info. https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/ 
* Info: Records the date the description was generated. Is displayed on the specimen or OTU landing page in the taxon/specimen history. 
* Entry type: no entry, is autogenerated by PBot when creating a new record.
* Considerations: 

### Entered by:  Are we using “entered by” (or some other name for it like recordedBy?)--see question from Doug’s email
* PBot: enteredBy: [SchemaEnteredBy]
* dwc: similar to but not quite synonymous with recordedBy http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/recordedBy
* Info: The user who entered the record.
* Entry type: no entry, is autogenerated by PBot when creating a new record.
* Considerations:
